---
layout: post
category: reflections
title: 2018 Reflection
---

Dear Readers,

This will be my last major post for 2018. There's one more idea to steal and a flash piece after this; don't worry. But this week, I'd like to take this opportunity to look back on 2018 and give you a heads up about things I'm planning for 2019.

<!--excerpt-->

First, thank you to everyone who read, commented on Discord, and liked on Facebook. You kept me going even when work got tough and life got busy. Without your feedback, I wouldn't have been able to keep my goal of posting every week.

I'm not going to make big changes to the content line-up in 2019. There will still be writing prompts, ideas to steal, and freeform posts like this one. However, I will start posting longer pieces of fiction in 2019. I'm even considering multi-part stories. If all goes according to plan, 2019 will have original fiction every month.

The biggest change I want to make to Apprentice Wordsmith is moving to a new blogging platform. GitHub has served me well these last 3 years, but I've reached the limit of what it (and my mediocre coding skills) can do. I want to give the blog a new coat of paint and add pictures to my posts. Also tags and categories so I can finally start organizing them. Forcing you to click back through pages and pages of content just to find one old post is pretty cruel of me. These things aren't impossible with the current set-up, but it would take a lot of trial, error, and time -- more than I can spend right now. I'd rather move to another platform that's more user-friendly on my end, so I can make these changes in a few minutes instead of a whole afternoon.

The platform I want to, however, is a paid service. Unfortunately, I don't have the money to make it happen before 2019. Things are looking up with my day job, but it's still to early to say anything definite. That said, I promise to give up plenty of notice before the transition happens. I will be keeping the domain name, so you won't even need to change your bookmarks.

Thanks for a great 2018. Here's hoping that 2019 will be just as awesome. Till then, Happy Holidays!

**Did you meet your writing goals in 2018? Have suggestions for things you'd like to see on the blog in 2019? Let me know down in the comments?**
