---
layout: post
category: prompts
title: Writing Prompts 47
---

New month. New set of writing prompts.

Small programming note: I'm taking my week off at the end of the month. My family is hosting Thanksgiving this year. I'd like to get all of my blog posts and work orders done before then, so I won't have to rush preparations. Upside for you is that the next part of *Reclaiming the City* will appear sooner than usual. Stay tuned for that. Enjoy these prompts for now.

<!--excerpt-->

1. Most people think of an object when you mention a MacGuffin, but people can become MacGuffins too. Write a story centerd on such a character. Why are they treasured as a MacGuffin? Have they come to terms with their fate, or do they fight against it?

2. In a nation embroiled in a civil war, a group of smugglers regularly cross the front lines to deliver letters between the two warring regions.

3. A group of strangers take shelter together in the midst of a calamity -- war, natural disaster, zombie outbreak, etc. They soon realize that they're going to be stuck here for a while. Write about the personalities and nascent factions that jostle for control over the shelter.

4. Write about a group of people who take refuge on the moon.

5. Something has been weighing down the main character for years: a traumatic memory, a false accusation, or old guilt by association. What must they do to finally let go and move on?

**If you use any of these prompts, please share your story or a link to your story in the comments below.**
