---
layout: post
category: reflections
title: Looking Into 2022 [Updates]
---

Hello all.

Most of what I wanted to say reflections-wise I said back in August. Yet there are a few things I want to update you on before the year ends. So think of this less as an end-of-the-year letter and more of a quick update post.

<!--excerpt-->

**First, the hiatus will continue into 2022.** I've honestly enjoyed the reduced posting schedule. It's given me more time for my various creative projects, sure, but it's also allowed me to focus on my day job and more time to simply relax. I might be re-thinking my posting schedule in 2022. I'll definitely tell you once I've made any official decisions. For now, you can expect more of what you've seen this fall.

**Second, my sister and I have big plans for the blog in 2022.** She's graduating college next spring, so she'll have more time to help with Apprentice Wordsmith. We've already started talking about what projects we want to work on once she's finished school.

Our top priority will be giving the blog a facelift and moving it to its (hopefully) forever home. The big move is finally happening, y'all!

We're also discussing new types of content to make for you. You read that right. These aren't just simple blog posts we're talking about. It's still way too early to say any more right now. But I will promise you this, dear readers. You will be the first to know when new stuff launches. And when it does, I hope you'll come check it out, especially if you've been enjoying my Friday Fiction and Flashes.

That's it for updates. I'm psyched for 2022, and I hope you're looking forward to it too. Till then, Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
